stop signs were yellow for 30 years
by 1954 red dye that wouldn't fade
became available
and it all changed in 2014
two research scientists living a
45-minute helicopter ride away found
each other
using a dating app in antarctica
tree rings grow wider when the weather
is warm and wet
the hottest inhabited place in the world
is dallo ethiopia
with the average annual temperature 94
degrees fahrenheit
and summer highs of 116 degrees
the only letter that's not in the
periodic table is
j a single strand of spaghetti is called
a spaghetto
and one ravioli is a raviolo
[Music]
a french exit is what they call leaving
a party without telling anyone in
english
in french they call it to leave english
style
you can burn around 100 calories per
hour just standing
and doing nothing gps is free to use
but it costs 2 million dollars per day
to make it work
the united kingdom has more tornadoes
per area
than any other country in the world
times square was called long acre square
until the new york times headquarters
moved
here in 1904
the word kimono translates as a thing to
wear
ki means where and mono means thing
[Music]
santa claus received a pilot's license
and airway maps from the u.s government
in 1927.
they also promised runway lights will be
on for him
the first band that performed live on
all seven continents was metallica
on december 8 2013 they played a show
called
frieza mall in antarctica
[Music]
a hole in the center of a spaghetti
spoon exists
not only to strain water but also to
measure
a portion of spaghetti that hole fits
exactly
one serving
[Music]
if you grab a beverage in a glass bottle
at the base
your drink will get warmer because of
the body heat
that's why most of them have long necks
carrying a bottle by the neck keeps your
beverage
chill besides holding it that way is
just
easier however don't do this with your
kids
square-shaped spoon that goes with
mcflurry helps to mix the ice cream
toppings through the dessert
the spoon hooks directly into a machine
and spins around
however don't do this with your kids
ever forgot which side your gas tank was
on
that's what a small arrow or a triangle
on your dashboard is for
if it points left the gas tank door is
on the left
if it points right that's right it's on
the right
all right
[Music]
padlocks that are used outside quickly
get out of order because of the rain
see this little hole in the bottom it's
made for pouring
engine oil inside do this and the key
will again turn in the lock
without any difficulty
the small disc under the lid of plastic
water and soda bottles
creates a seal that keeps both liquid
and carbonation inside
without it your soda would go flat
pretty fast
many doors have knobs made of brass
because brass prevents the spread of
germs
[Music]
the little hole on the top of a lollipop
stick is there to make it hard for the
candy to come off of the stick
when the melted candy is poured into the
mold some of it will seep into the hole
and harden
you keep banging the bottle of a glass
ketchup jar but nothing's coming out
here's a little tip turn your ketchup
bottle at an
angle and tap on the middle of the neck
there's a myth that the colored
rectangles have something to do with the
ingredients of the toothpaste
but the color bars are there in fact to
indicate to the machines where the
package must be cut
folded and sealed different color codes
are used for different packaging
machines
i like the other story better when this
putty first came out
it was intended as a wallpaper cleaner
that removed soot from the open
fireplace
but soon vinyl wallpapers came out and
the demand for the product dropped
someone in the inventor's family read a
newspaper article about making crafts
using the cleaning putty
they tested it with some kids in the
kindergarten they loved it
and then the product was rebranded as
the beloved play-doh
now their inventor was trying to create
a very strong long-lasting adhesive
but ended up with a low-tack glue
instead while trying to promote his
invention without success
his colleagues suggested using it to
temporarily stick
bookmarks in his books and bingo post-it
notes appeared
the yellow color occurred coincidentally
because the lab next to them
only had yellow scrap paper hey
why not a golf bag you have to tee off
anyway
yeah that's a stretch when the beverage
was first commercialized
the tea was placed in hand-sewn fabric
bags
in 1908 a tea and coffee importer from
new york
shipped his silk tea bags around the
world to enjoy the beverage
customers had to remove the tea leaves
from the bags
but they were unaware of this and
started brewing the tea
in the silver bags they loved it so much
that
it became the norm and everyone enjoyed
tea this way
it took another 20 years for the first
tea bag machine to come out though
placed in the dishwasher mugs are
supposed to be upside down
cleaning water start spraying on top and
below them to make them shine
a manufacturing company saw that when
people took the mugs out of the
dishwater
water would accumulate on the top and
drip all over them
so they came up with a tiny groove on
the side to allow water to escape
21 out of the 25 most venomous snakes in
the world
just happen to live in australia
australia's saltwater crocodiles are the
largest reptiles in the world
growing up to 20 feet long that's half
as long as a school bus
there are also some of the oldest
appearing over 240 million years ago
crocs like living in australia's murky
swamp waters
and can hold their breath for up to an
hour so
if you're walking along the water's edge
and don't see a crocodile
that doesn't mean it isn't there as huge
as they are
crocs can swim up to 20 miles per hour
so forget about
out swimming one they have special
valves in their mouths
they keep water from flooding in so they
can quickly swim a long way
without coming up for air another unique
reptile found in australia
is the thorny dragon it's a small lizard
whose entire body is covered in
you guessed it raised thorny skin
this is its defense against predators
don't worry buddy
i wouldn't want to take a bite australia
is home to about 2
400 species of spiders not all of them
are venomous
but some are extremely dangerous like
the sydney
funnel web spider it's the country's
most venomous
with a bite that causes damage to
internal organs and major body tissues
the antidote was made widely available
in 1981
so as long as you get to the hospital
asap
you'll be fine let's not forget about
local sea life
australia's oceans boast 4 000 different
kinds of fish
and 1700 species of coral it's home to
the famous great barrier reef after all
lots of different sharks stingrays
turtles and dolphins can be found in
australia's oceans too
with all that biodiversity this place is
a hot spot for divers
there are also some pretty weird
alien-like creatures in australia's
oceans
fire worms with their short stinging
tentacles and sea urchins that have
strange
and sometimes poisonous colorful spines
the ancient romans were known for their
surprisingly advanced sewage systems
public latrines became places to
socialize with others
which seems pretty bizarre when you
think about it today
the forerunner to the modern flush
toilet was invented in 1596
by sir john harrington queen elizabeth
the first
godson the design had a two foot deep
oval bowl that was rinsed cleaned by
water rushing from a cistern above
in the 1860s and 70s parisians could do
their business without leaving the
street
there were more than 1200 open-air
bathrooms around the city
some of them were so pretty they were
considered works of art
you can still find the last of them on
boulevard arago
in the 1880s british manufacturer thomas
william
twyford introduced the first all-ceramic
freestanding toilet
back then the bowls could be intricately
designed and painted
not like the smooth stark white ones we
have today
there are more than 24 time zones in the
world which means that not all of them
are
exactly one hour apart from each other
and that's true
many time zones have only a 30 or 45
minute difference from the neighboring
ones
remember to tell me in the comments
below about the time zone you live in
[Music]
despite a popular misconception when you
lose weight
your fat cells don't just disappear into
thin air
nope they just become smaller and vice
versa
when you gain some additional pounds
your fat cells
grow in size the mimic
octopus has a perfect defense system it
can not only change its color
but also take the shapes of other
animals for example
flounders sea snakes or lionfish
if you decided to save a few bucks by
charging your smartphone less often
let me disappoint you to charge a cell
phone you need
teeny amounts of electricity that's why
the maximum amount of money you can save
within a year
is less than a buck the world's
population is constantly growing
and a lot of people find it a bit
concerning
but what if i tell you that all those
seven and a half billion people living
on earth right now
stood shoulder to shoulder they would
occupy just
500 square miles which is the same as
the territory of
los angeles now this huge number sounds
more manageable right
mcdonald's once created bubble gum
flavored broccoli
to encourage kids to eat more healthily
sadly the experiment didn't end
successfully
child testers were terribly confused by
the taste
the weird broccoli was a failure um
couldn't see that coming huh
the microbes living inside humans turn
out to be way more diverse than
researchers previously thought and
what's even worse
almost 99 of them are unknown to science
well that's disturbing a mouse's bones
are
so flexible it can fit into a ballpoint
pen size
hole if you cage one make sure the grid
is small enough
the most popular language in the world
is not english and by far
the title belongs to mandarin chinese
with over a billion speakers around the
globe
[Music]
the record for the longest lasting
hiccups belongs to a man named
charles osborne he had this condition
for 69 years straight
human fingers are extremely sensitive as
an evolutionary perk
if your fingertips were the size of
earth you'd feel the difference
between a one-story house and a car
china is home to the most bicycles in
the world however the most bike-friendly
city
is copenhagen in denmark
a giraffe's tongue is so long the animal
can clean its own ears with it
which it does every so often i am
jealous
[Music]
a hummingbird's heart beats at an
average rate of 1200 beats per minute
that's 20 beats per second
only about 86 percent of the world's
adult population can read
and is considered a huge leap forward
compared to half a century ago
lobsters due to their cold-blooded
nature can come back to life
after being frozen and thawed again and
they are delicious
just saying prairie dogs kiss each other
to say hi
[Music]
facebook can qualify as a country of its
own today there are over 2 billion
people using it
which is more than the population of the
us china and brazil
combined africa is a challenger though
by 2050 it's estimated to grow to 2.3
billion people living there
during a flight on an airplane our sense
of smell and taste
is 20 to 50 percent lower than usual
that's why the food on board doesn't
seem delicious
sonic the hedgehog was put in the
guinness book of records for
being the fastest video game character
of all time
after all he runs faster than the speed
of light
our noses can detect more than one
trillion smells
sounds impressive but a dog sniffer can
detect ten thousand
times more than that well humans can
smell if there's a teaspoon of sugar in
their coffee
a dog can smell a teaspoon of sugar in 1
million
gallons of water goats were the first to
discover
coffee's energizing effects they started
feeding on coffee beans and got
hyperactive for the rest of the day
the goat owner noticed this and spread
the word
the average person will grow almost 600
miles of hair
over a lifetime that says twice as long
as the atmosphere is thick
2 billion pencils are manufactured every
year in the u.s alone
if you laid them all on the ground end
to end they'd circle the earth's equator
nine times and each of those pencils can
write forty five thousand words
and draw a line that's over thirty miles
long
the difference between mass and weight
is that your mass is always the same
but your weight changes depending on
your location
so if you weigh 100 pounds on earth
you'd only be
38 pounds on mars have you ever thrown
an
apple in a river and seen it float
that's because it's 23
air in the 1800s
cowboys used to wear their watches on
chains to keep them protected
a brand introduced the tiny little
pockets we have on our jeans today
peanuts aren't nuts they belong to the
botanical family of
febesie which are legumes
mars daytime sky is dusty red and its
dusks
are a beautiful shade of blue martians
themselves are little and green
the founders of portland both wanted to
name it after their hometowns
they decided to flip a coin and if it
landed the other way around
the city would be named boston
the shortest war ever lasted only 38
minutes
there's a lesson here somewhere
according to some
studies dogs can easily smell a specific
scent
that cancer produces in a person cats
have two separate sets of vocal cords
they use one of them for purring and
another one for meowing
just like narrators the apollo
astronauts who got to fly to the moon
had to go through u.s customs after they
got back
yeah it was a joke those funny nasa guys
sweat itself doesn't have any odor at
all
it's the bacteria on your skin that
breaks it down and causes it to smell
bad
barbie doll's full name is barbara
millicent roberts
so she's really barbie milly bob the
twitter logo bird
also has a name larry it was named after
larry bird
a former nba player who used to play for
one of the twitter co-founders home
state team
a british study stated that on average
children ask about 300 questions
or one question every two and a half
minutes every day
it is possible to sneeze with your eyes
open it's just that most of the time
your blinking instinct naturally kicks
in yeah i've sprayed my windshield a few
times myself
if you keep a goldfish in a dark room
it'll eventually become
a bit paler there are more fake
flamingos in the world than real ones
most of them vacation in miami
contagious yawning can occur if you hear
see
or even think about yawning and it's not
only humans who are affected by it
chimpanzees experience this too so does
my dog
the largest thing ever captured in a
photo was a black hole
which happened in 2019 but the smallest
thing ever photographed was the shadow
of an
atom speaking of giants
the largest living tree on earth with
just one stem
is a sequoia tree called general sherman
it's 275 feet tall
it's almost as tall as the statue of
liberty
while we're on the topic hundreds of
years ago people chewed on tree bark to
relieve discomfort
willow bark has a lot of salice in that
that transforms to salicylic acid when
we eat it
that is an ingredient used in aspirin
today
world's largest marsupials are red
kangaroos
they can grow up to six feet in height
and they never stop growing until they
pass away
there are 93 million selfies taken every
day
yet if you were to have your picture
taken by the first camera in history
you'd have to sit still for eight hours
excuse me can i scratch no darn
around 2500 decommissioned train cars
were sunk in the atlantic ocean
to build artificial reefs for fish and
crustaceans
physicist victor franz hess used the
subway as his lab to run his experiments
he picked the deepest station in the
system which was the one at 190th street
in manhattan
it takes around 864 bees to fill a
standard 340 gram jar of honey
and around 12 bees to make a teaspoon
for our tea
the word barbarian was used to refer to
people who didn't speak greek
individuals who had a different language
sounded like they were saying
bar bar bar thus barbarians
the most expensive substance in the
world is anti-matter
it costs around 25 billion dollars per
gram
yet anti-hydrogen would cost 62.5
trillion bucks per gram to produce